---
title: "Deed Radar"
date: "2020-05-10"
---

Here is my first web program as promised in my first post. Due to COVID-19 fears, the majority of internship opportunities for the summer of 2020 have been shifted to remote experiences. For many companies, this meant the internships would be less personal as the number of interns need not be restricted over video call. I frankly saw this as a waste of my time. 

My friend Nathan who I met up with in Bali has been moving for many years, and has recently considered opening his own moving company since the barrier to entry is only a moving truck and insurance. In my head I was thinking all of this was a great idea, and even by renting a truck from uhaul for a day, the marginal profits from serving your customers beats being a payrolled manual labor employee of a moving company by a landslide.

When we discussed this last week, Nathan's closing remarks were to "find people who need to move". Well other than the family who I did landscaping work for that are renting my friends house (Client #1!), how would I actively find clients? Put out a flyer around town? Buy ad space online? Bribe a realtor? All of these strategies (barring bribery) are casting such a wide net that they are merely telling people that are happily staying put that you can help them move... eventually.

Then it hit me. Property transfers are required to be publicly recorded for property tax reasons. Each county keeps a public archive of these property records, and some states even have these available online. People who transfer deeds are more likely than not going to move in the near future, except for a few cases where ownership changes but occupancy remains the same. I decided if I put these all in one place and was I was automatically alerted to the most recent deeds, I could use the address alongside zillow or the MLS to estimate the payload size for each property's move before I even contact the potential client. Now the problem is no longer who do I advertise to, it's how do I advertise to this subset who are actively planning how they will move as I see the notification of their deed.

Since I'll be living in Worcester for the summer, I looked into Massachusetts deed registries and found that each county has a very convoluted, poorly designed interface for viewing recently transfered deeds. If someone were to manually scan registries, they'll be faced at least a couple minutes of navigating to the correct pages and setting up the search parameters each time they want to recieve an update. It is not enough to just check the list once daily, as most of the clients will have already been targeted by companies using the same lead technique. I had to create a relatively unique algorithm to actively scan each registry separately for new deed listings, and only show me the new ones. Some registries such as Northern Middlesex and Suffolk have 20+ deeds recorded each day, and I soon realized that even if only 1% of these potential leads panned out, I would not be able to handle this volume of moving clients without a fleet of trucks! This is why I will be offering it as a service to other moving service providers. I looked into services online who offer this information like movingshortly.com, and they have a starting price of $249/month. I thought to myself... yeah I can beat that. 

Another issue I find with the moving service industry is that companies are effectively cutting their profits in half by treating each moving job as a closed loop, only originating from one location. Some moves span thousands of miles from the origin, and still pay a driver to burn through diesel in an empty truck on the return route. If we look for inspiration from the US Postal Service, if you can have facilities spread out in many areas, then a truck from one facility can be held at and later utilized at its destination facility. Although without automated trucks just yet, drivers would have to be rather nomadic. This would allow the company to cut gas and time costs associated with a truck assets, allowing for their same marginal profit at a discounted price to the customer.