---
title: "My Ideal Career"
date: "2020-05-10"
---

I'm fascinated by innovative ideas. There's something about the way they take multiple concepts from isolated ideologies and merge them to form a novel solution. Furthermore, my fascination is driven by excitement for the meaningful impacts these ideas can have on the future. I particularly chose to study neuroscience because of its inherent multidisciplinary nature, relying on mathematical theory as much as it does biology and psychology. The problems explored by this study range from practical engineering problems of whether motion can be restored in paralyzed people using neuromodulated feedback loops, to existential inquiries about our cognitive foundation.

As interested as I am to become an expert in all of these subcategories, it's difficult enough to even become a master in niche of one of the categories. Each subsection of the neurotechnology industry is subject to stagnation due to the capabilities of modern technology, such as the poor spatial and temporal resolution of MRIs, EEGs, and MEGs that are the staples of brain imaging today. Many alternatives are emerging in the past few years, with the most hype going toward Elon Musk's Neuralink endeavor, which has successfully implanted a series of intracranial thread-like electrodes and microprocessors into primates and demonstrated functionally precise brain machine interfaces. This past summer there were reports of upcoming FDA approved clinical trials, although I have yet to hear anything more about this. Many researchers have been experimenting with a variety of novel methods, who are all in need of strategic funding to bring their findings into practical use.

I worked in a visual neuroscience lab last summer and throughly enjoyed the challenges I faced, although the process was extremely tedious. Through working with the same type of visual response data for months on end, I inherently had an understanding of the subject beyond what I can possibly convey in a paper or presentation. Someone had to dedicate time to performing the experiments and analyzing the data, or else the subject matter would be ignored. I have found myself to be much more interested in pondering where research findings can be applied rather than performing the steps to produce the findings.

Here is where I fit in. The only way that technologies can improve is if investors see the potential of the product or research and support it with funding. The problem is a lack of understanding for where a certain research finding actually has merit as opposed to a poor, or conversely overstated, sales pitch.

I want to be on the frontier of seeing what companies and researchers in this industry are doing so I can properly support a technology at a time when it is primed for success. Researchers are so hyperfocused on their own findings that they may overlook simple connections to other industries or to societal perception itself. I enjoy discovering promising emerging technologies, so why not utilize it as a service?