---
title: "Origins of Website"
date: "2020-04-27"
---

I built this website by following a next.js tutorial on how to make a basic blog using react, and adapting it for future growth.

Reason: I wanted to learn how to create a website primarily to have a public outlet where I can publish any ideas I have, whether that be random topics from my stream of consciousness, acadmeic work, or independent projects as well as to have a platform for implementing useful programs.

I first began looking into web development for the duration of a 10 hour bus ride from Boston to DC to visit my cousin. For my purposes I've avoided wordpress because although I like its simplicity for graphic design, I was looking for more low level control. Through minimal research I knew I needed a development server, so I jumped into MAMP (Macintosh, Apache, MySQL, Perl/Python/PHP). Here I was able to play around with HTML formatting, but the user interface felt uncomfortable. I arrived to Melbourne, AU a week later and as classes and orientation activities took off, I didn't see this approach to web development rewarding enough to continue.

During my second week of classes, a peer in my Design of Algorithms class was assembling a team for the upcoming Ready Trader One competition hosted by Optiver, an institutional trading firm. Considering my invlolvement in the Holy Cross Student Investment fund for the past 2 years, as well as my experience in a handful of programming languages, I decided I may be able to contribute. I immediately realized my experience in value investing was only as valuable as my understanding that the market is not efficient. Our team of 4 attempted to create a market making algorithm to compete against 200 teams, in which we attempted to profit off of the bid ask spread by simultaneously placing put and call orders. As I was undergoing a mandatory evacuation back to the United States, we were eliminated in the first round. 1 week later I watched the live finale as the winning team along with one other were the only to end in the green after 20 minutes of trading.

After catching up on projects from school I missed during my week long hiatus in Bali and another week exploring Melbourne before my upcoming 2 week self isolation at home, I explored the alogorithm trading APIs available from Tdameritrade and Alpaca Markets. Tdameritrade has some interesting functions and great to the minute price history for every security I searched for, while Alpaca offered an easy method of backtesting any given trading algorithm through the blueshift platform. I have been a long time follower of the reddit sub r/algotrading where people offer advice, ask questions, and provide resources such as self made unofficial API extensions for TdAmeritrade. Since TdAmeritrade's API example functions were all written in javascript, which at that point I had no exposure to, and I only had a month's worth of Python experience from my Computational Genomics class, I veered toward Alpaca. I didn't feel comfortable in my ability to translate js to py or with using open source code that has access to private keys connected to my bank account.

A 2016 "Survey of High-Frequency Trading Strategies" by Stanford offered many interesting methods of HFT, and I decided TdAmeritrade's official APIs offered superior data that were best suited for this. I guess I had to learn javascript. I soon found this next.js tutorial and decided that learning web development would be fitting for me as a segway into javascript. I had no intentions of starting a blog, but the infrastructure is already in place so I might as well!

The direction of my projects tend to change on a dime, but I'm moving to Worcester, MA in the beginning of June to finish my senior year at Holy Cross as a Neuroscience major. During the summer I plan to work as an investment research analsyst for LJMB Capital Advisors, with the potential for part time work as a Real Estate Agent or mover. I will be taking online courses in multivariable calculus and linear algebra before the fall as qualification for a quantum mechanics class. I believe this class to be indispensible for anyone studying microscopic science to prevent the classical mechanics ideology of determinism from guiding your theories. As for my independent projects, I plan to continue my exploration of algorithm trading, work on my Archive platform framework, and I'll hopefully be deploying functional programs accessible online.